An excuse from alcohol

I read a journal about the influence of drinking alcohol. Last month,for my master course’s assignment, it holds the view point when people are drunk, they will find themselves are attractive. They get much confidence in front of the opposite sex and are eager to move closer to their target. Therefore, the researchers hold some interviews in a barroom which is commonly seen situation and it should be the reason why many people enjoy chilling in barrooms at nights. It is a pity that I do not totally agree that it is not the main reason for the man who takes alcohol and gets closer to their target in barroom but my personal idea isn’t suitable to express on my assignment so here I try
to share my view based on my experience instead.

I got an experience in a barroom last week. I went to a private barroom for my friend’s birthday gathering. What surprised me was that Wai who was a shy and silent boy kept ordering beers since we encouraged him to drink the first bottle. After finishing the second bottle, he went to chat with the girls sitting next table and who he didn’t know. He did some exaggerated body’s movements. However, his rhetoric behaviors are not attractive and the girls were fed up with
that.

I am not going to deny the point that alcohol will make people self-perceptions increased while reducing self-awareness mentioned in the academic paper. However, we cannot object that alcohol is a tool for giving an excuse to one to behave differently and be another person with a totally different character that he will not perform in front of the peers’ originally. Everyone is always in favor of getting attention or being appreciated by others. However, we cannot keep
showing off otherwise it will cause others’ hatred. Therefore, drinking alcohol becomes a reasonable excuse for himself and he doesn’t care what he does. I always believe an old Chinese proverb: “drunk three points awake” (酒醉三分醒) So, I see what he did was his secret behavior which was not shown on other days but what he did should clearly be understood by himself.

As an audience, I am sure, you are going to “grab popcorn” and observe how discourteous and absurd the man’s. However, if you were me, one of the drunken boy’s friends, what would you do then? His friends, including me, were so embarrassed by his out of control behavior. We wanted to stop him many times but failed. Not until he had felt dizzy and slept on the sofa, then we knew that the prank should be finished and our nightmare over. Sigh!

I know all of us have pressure and should control our behavior tight due to our roles in the society. However, when you get relaxed, you had better consider the people around you. There is no doubt that alcohol should be a good emotional booster but it should not be the excuse for totally loosening your control otherwise your friends will suffer and the friendship will be ruined.

After the terrible experience, I start picking up some reliable friends to go gathering not only for the reason that protecting our relationships, but also I found that I am not ready to see the other side of my friend.
